Hey Northridge, how are you guys?
Good to see you.
My name is Pete.
I'm one of the pastors here.
I want to welcome all of you that are here in Plymouth.
Welcome those of you in Brighton.
Welcome those of you watching online.
We're so glad you're with us.
I know those of you in Brighton, a good number of you, had a hard time getting in here today, some traffic issues.
We apologize.
It's a good problem, but it's still a problem and we're working on it.
You actually hear Pastor Brad talk about this as we get closer to Easter, some of the ways we're trying to make it easier for you guys to kind of get on and get off campus.
But thanks for wrestling through it.
Take a big deep breath, you're in here now, and we can get started, okay?
So glad you guys are here.
So, Patrick Brad last week kicked off this new series, which I think is one of the most important series that we've ever done.
This, what if it's true?
Well, we're looking at some of the most amazing claims all the way throughout scripture, and how would our life change if we really chose to believe that?
One of the cool things we're doing throughout this series
is we're kind of doing this text campaign, where every day if you want to, you can get the option of receiving just a verse and a little short devotional.
It'll take you less than 30 seconds to read it.
It'll be delivered to your phone every day.
All you have to do, if you want to sign up and be a part of that, is text to word Devo, D-E-V-O to 31616.
Devo is short for devotional, and you can get that.
And I think it's a great way for us all to kind of just stay on the same page as we go through this series together, and as we lead up to Easter.
If you're here last week, you know that Pastor Brad is an amazing message.
If you weren't here, you need to go back and listen to it.
But he unpacked this truth that Christianity believes that the Bible is God's word.
Now again, if you didn't hear that one, you definitely want to go back and listen to it.
I'm not saying that every message in this series necessarily builds on it, but these first couple of weeks definitely do.
And so you kind of have to understand this backstory and come to this conclusion.
And if you do, it'll make this week's message a lot easier for me as you kind of grasp with the truth that we're going to look at today, which is this Christianity believes that Jesus was the Son of God.
Now, just like Pastor Brad said last week, we're saying Christianity believes that Jesus was the Son of God, but we understand that not necessarily all of you believe that.
You may not be there yet.
And we understand in a church like Northridge, people are coming from all kinds of different backgrounds.
Some of you grew up in completely different forms of spirituality.
You might not be at this place.
That's okay.
We're so glad you're here.
My prayer for you today,
is that you would just keep an open mind.
Just keep an open heart as we kind of talked through this because I really believe that some of you, right, that are on this side of faith right now, you haven't crossed over that line and really trusted and believe in Jesus.
I think that today could be that day for you as we unpack this truth that Christianity believes Jesus was the Son of God.
Now, if you were here last week, you know that Pastor Brad talked about this idea that we believe that the Bible is God's word.
Right?
So all scripture, God breathe.
We believe that all scripture is important.
We believe all scripture is equally challenging, equally inspiring.
But what we're looking at today is what we're going to focus on four books out of the Bible.
The New Testament starts with Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
We call that the Gospels.
And the reason that these four books are unique are these four books are the unique eyewitness accounts of Jesus followers who are with them.
Solve these events take place, right?
And they're giving us a detailed account of Jesus' life, Jesus' ministry, Jesus' mission.
And it's all showing us who Jesus really is.
And this is a big truth for us to unpack, right?
Who Jesus is.
And so we're going to look at a couple of these stories out of the gospels a couple years ago.
I was trying to figure out what to buy my dad for Christmas and my dad is probably a lot like some of your dad and it's hard.
It's so hard to figure out like something unique to give him for Christmas because he doesn't want much.
and what he wants, he already has.
He is for the exact same pair of Reebok tennis shoes for over 25 years, right?
Not the exact same, I mean, it's the same style.
He just, every couple of years buys the exact same tennis shoe.
He's that kind of guy.
He's not gonna, they've worked for him and he's gonna stick with him, right?
So he has these, so I'm trying to think, like what's something unique I could get him?
And I found this thing called story worth.
And story worth is this online subscription.
And what it would do is every week it would send my dad a question.
And I could get in there and I could edit the questions.
If I didn't want to come up with questions, they would automatically generate some questions.
There are questions about his life.
So questions like, tell us about the first time that you fell in love.
Tell us about your first job.
Tell us about what technology has come out in your lifetime that revolutionized your life more than any other form of technology.
Questions like, tell me about your faith.
Tell me about how you came to believe what you believe about God, what you believe about Jesus.
Like, it's so cool.
And he would give like a 500 to 1,000 word response.
I know it doesn't sound like a great Christmas gift.
I basically gave him a homework assignment the last a year.
It was really more of a gift for me, right?
Because at the end of the year, what Storyworth does is it takes all these responses and stories that he told over a year and they put it in this really cool kind of hardbound book.
And so now I have this book
of my dad's story, like of things that he's experienced, things he believes, disappointments he had to overcome.
I will cherish that book right until the day I die.
I'll probably read it half a dozen to a dozen times over the course of my life because I'm so keenly interested.
My dad's had a huge impact on my life and I want to know how his life turned out the way that it did.
And one day I'm going to pass that book about my dad down to my kids, his grandkids.
And they probably will be interested in the book, but they won't be as passionate about it as I was, right?
That's their people, they love people, they'll be interested in the story, so they'll read it.
And I'm just hoping that maybe by chance they can go the rest of their life and not actually lose that book, although there's a good chance that they will lose that book.
But if they don't lose that book, maybe they leave it to their kids, my grandkids, my dad's great-grandkids,
And do you think that those great grandkids are gonna be as interested in my dad's story as I am?
No, probably not.
And that is probably where that book will end.
As sad as that would sound to my dad, as sad as that sounds to me, just the reality, generation after generation are not gonna be as interested in his story.
And so I was just thinking this week, how many of you believe that 2,000 years from now, there's gonna be any kind of detail to count about your life?
Probably not many, right?
I mean, history tells us that.
If you look at ancient literature from 2,000 years ago, how many detailed accounts do we have of some of the most powerful, richest, innovative human beings who have lived, who have changed the way that we live?
Very few.
If you look at ancient literature, again, some of the most powerful, richest rulers in the world, you'll find in these obscure ancient texts, like maybe a line about them, right?
Maybe their name.
Maybe their title, maybe the region of the world that they ruled in.
That's about it, right?
That's about it.
How many detailed stories of ancient peasants do we have?
Basically one, right?
One.
And so you kind of have to ask, right?
When you think about these four gospels,
And this detailed account that we have of Jesus, right?
This Galilean day laborer turned rabbi, executed by Rome, rejected by his own people.
Why is that story still around?
Why is that story still impacting us today?
Why in the world did 2,000 years ago this group of people give us such a detailed account of this guy's life?
It's because they believed that something extraordinary happened.
And it wasn't just that something extraordinary happened.
It wasn't just that something could happen to them, those who were there with Jesus in that time period.
They believed that this was good news for everybody.
And so they went to unbelievable links to make sure that the story was documented, right?
To make sure that this story would live on.
And that's why the Gospel writers
took so much detail into this.
Now one of the things you have to understand about the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and the story about Jesus is the main goal of the Gospels was not to tell us what Jesus did.
The main goal was to show us who Jesus is.
There's a difference, right?
The gospel writers even alluded to this and say that there's many other signs and wonders that Jesus did that aren't even recorded in the gospels.
So it's not like they recorded absolutely every little thing that he did throughout his life, but the main goal of it, again, not just to record what Jesus did, but to show us who Jesus is, that he is who he claimed to be, and he is who they believed he to be, Jesus the Son of God.
Now, this is a big topic, right?
And I got about 25 minutes left.
And so when you think about speaking on a topic like, what if it's true?
Jesus is the son of God.
There's a lot of different angles we could take, right?
And a lot has been written about this.
A lot has been researched about this.
You could go from the angle of looking at ancient sources outside of the Bible.
There are texts that exist that refer to this person of Jesus, that he was a real historical figure.
You could look at the prophecies that Jesus fulfilled in his life, over 300 Old Testament prophecies that Jesus fulfilled in his short life.
That's a very compelling argument, because the mathematical chances of that happening are about zero percent.
That'd be a great way, right?
There's lots of different ways.
I've got a friend named Roy Vaiden, and Roy, I love Roy.
He's never been a pastor.
He's a devoted follower of Jesus.
He also has a brilliant mind.
He's a brilliant businessman.
And he just spent a bunch of time researching this whole idea of who is Jesus of Nazareth.
He put a whole podcast together.
You can go online and just Google, wait till after the message if you're online right now, but you can Google, Rory Vaden, Jesus podcast, and it'll pop up right to the top.
And he did this thing on seven questions every intelligent skeptic should ask about Jesus of Nazareth.
It's brilliant.
kinds of detailed information and research.
It's hours and hours and hours worth of content.
There's also a great book called The Case for Christ written by a guy named Lee Strobel.
He was a journalist in Chicago.
If you've never read, how many of you have read The Case for Christ, by the way?
Yeah, a bunch of you.
I do made a billion dollars off that book.
And he deserves it because it is so well written, so much great research.
So if today, just
The plants is seeding you to say, I want to do more research on who Jesus and neither is.
I believe it's the most important thing you could ever research in your life.
You just know, there's a couple great sources out there.
Now, in 23 minutes that we now have, there's no way that I could do an adequate job of covering all the different angles that you have to approach to to look at this idea is Jesus who we claim to be, is he the Son of God.
And so I thought the best way
for us to invest our time together today is to look at one particular angle.
And to me, it's one of the ones that kind of forces us to really wrestle with is Jesus the Son of God.
And that is just to look at the Bible at who He claims to be.
Because here's what I believe.
When you look at who Jesus claims to be, you have to come to one of two conclusions.
Either Jesus was an absolute lunatic and liar, or He is who He said He was.
which is the Son of God.
Now, when you put it that way, right, it freaks me out every time I even say, maybe Jesus was lunatic and a liar.
I feel like I'm gonna get struck by lightning, right, standing right here, right?
But that's what you have to decide, right?
He either was an absolute crazy liar, or he was who he said he was.
So I'm gonna just show you two accounts in scripture where Jesus talks about who he believed he was.
So this is Matthew 16.
It says, when Jesus came to the region of Cessariah, Philippi, he asked his disciples, who do you say the Son of Man is?
Great question.
Jesus loved asking questions.
I think he asked 183 questions, unique questions in the four gospels.
He only answered three of those questions directly.
He loved asking questions.
He loved getting people to think, right?
And so he says, who do people say the Son of Man is?
In other words, out on the street, what are people saying about me?
Some say you're John the Baptist, others say you're Elijah, and still others Jeremiah are one of the prophets.
And it was like, people know you're not normal, but they don't know exactly who you are, right?
They see these signs and these wonders and they hear your teaching, but there's a lot of confusion out there on who you actually are.
And so some people think you're like a reincarnated prophet, and that's how you have this wisdom and this power that you have.
But what about you, Jesus asked?
Who do you say that I am?
Simon Peter answered, you are the Messiah, the son of the living God.
It's a great response, right?
But what I want you to really pay attention to is not what Peter said about who Jesus was.
I want you to see how Jesus responds to who Peter says that he is.
And he says, Jesus replied,
Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah, for this was not revealed to you by flesh and blood, but by my Father in heaven, and I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock, I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overcome it."
In other words, he says, Peter, you're right.
I am the Messiah.
the Son of the Living God.
That response is huge, right?
Because it's not like Jesus in that moment looks at Peter and is like, aw, shucks, Peter.
I appreciate that compliment, man, but I'm not worthy of that, right?
No.
This unbelievably humble, kind, generous man does not blink at the statement that Peter says, I know exactly who you are.
You are the Messiah, the Son of the Living God.
Not only does Jesus say, is that a piece of confetti?
It is Happy St. Patrick's Day, everybody.
Yeah.
He doesn't blink at it, right?
Sorry, I get ADD about stuff like that.
I just, I had to acknowledge it or I started to think I'm seeing stuff and all that.
It gets crazy.
He doesn't blink at what Peter says about who he is, right?
And he not only says, Peter, you're correct.
He's like, Peter, you're so correct that I know you didn't come up with that on your own, right?
I know that the God of heaven, the God of the universe revealed that to you.
So whether you are a Christian or not, right?
What if that's true?
What if Peter was right?
What if Jesus is actually who he claimed to be and who Peter stated that he was, that he is the son of the living God?
I think it's interesting because if you think about the churches existed for about 2,000 years, right?
And over the course of that 2,000 years, there's not a whole lot that the church has agreed on.
Let's just be honest.
Like even inside of one church, we have disagreements over certain things and how we see
certain things happening in the world and all that.
And then when you start comparing one church to another church, you know there's disagreements, one denomination to another denomination.
So the church for 2,000 years has fought about a lot of things.
We've argued about a lot of things.
We argue about stuff like baptism.
And who should be baptized?
When should they be baptized?
How should they be baptized?
We argue about things like music.
And should there be music in church?
Should there not be music in church?
Maybe it should be music, but it's just like our voices and there shouldn't be any instrument.
Or if we are gonna have music in the church, what style of music should that be?
We argue about things like communion, like when should communion take place?
How often should communion take place?
Who can administer communion, right?
We argue over gender roles in the church.
We argue over all kinds of stuff and have been for 2,000 years.
But the one thing that the church has the dream on, since its inception is this simple statement, Jesus is God's Son and our King.
It's the one thing.
That is the one thing for 2,000 years.
We have not wavered from this idea that Jesus is God's Son and He's our King.
And if that's true, our response to Jesus should be to worship Him, to obey Him, to surrender to Him, and to follow Him.
Everything else flows from this.
Everything else is just details.
I'm not saying they're not important details, but everything else is just
details.
So let me show you another count, all right, where Jesus makes a very similar claim, right, just kind of in a different way.
And what's going on right before Jesus makes this claim is he's talking to his disciples and he's trying to explain to them that very soon he is going to be arrested
He's going to be crucified.
He's going to resurrect three days later.
Sometime after that, he's going to send to heaven where he's going to prepare a place for them.
And one day he will come back and take us to be with him.
All right.
So he's saying this to them as often they are the disciples are totally confused and not actually understanding what he's saying.
And so they're visibly upset about this idea that Jesus is saying that he's going to leave them.
And so Jesus responds back to them and he says this in John 14, he says, hey, don't let your hearts be troubled.
You believe in God, believe also in me.
My father's house has many rooms, if that were not so, would I have not told you that I'm going there to prepare a place for you?
And if I go and I prepare a place for you, I will come back and I'll take you to be with me, that you also may be where I am.
You know the way to the place where I am going.
Thomas said to him, Lord,
We don't know where you're going, so how can we know the way?
Jesus answered, I am the way and the truth and the life.
No one comes to the Father except through me.
Now that statement causes a lot of people to get tripped up.
It's caused me to get tripped up in certain seasons of my life.
And so I'm gonna come back in a few minutes and talk a little bit more about that.
He says, if you really know me, you will know my Father as well.
From now on, you do know Him and you have seen Him.
Philip said, Lord,
Show us the Father, and that will be enough for us."
Jesus answered, don't you know me, Philip?
Even after I have been among you such a long time, anyone who has seen me has seen the Father.
How can you say, show us the Father?
Don't you believe that I am the Father and that the Father is in me?
The words I say to you, I do not speak on my own authority.
Rather, it is the Father living in me who is doing His work.
Believe me when I say that I'm the father and the fathers in me, or at least believe on the evidence of the works themselves.
And that really resonated with John.
And I think that's why John organizes gospel in the way that he did around certain signs and wonders that were pointing to the evidence of who Jesus actually was.
It's interesting, this whole concept, because they're deeply confused.
And I don't think that they're trying to cause trouble here.
They're just trying to figure it out.
And Jesus is saying, hey, if you know me, you know the Father as well.
To the degree that you know me, you know God.
Now, when you understand that, if you believe what Jesus is actually saying there, to the degree that you know me, you know God, that should revolutionize what you think about God the Father.
So let me ask you a question, all right?
You don't have to answer this out loud, but when you hear the word of the name God, and then you hear the word or the name Jesus, is there a tension for you?
Like in other words, it's one of those names you like better.
Is it one of those names that you feel more comfortable with?
Like for some of you, maybe it's you feel more comfortable with Jesus because the whole idea of God up there, you have no idea.
You can't see him.
And so it's brought some confusion.
Or maybe for some of you, you're totally cool with the God thing.
Like the whole concept of God, you talk about God, you pray to God.
But then once you start talking about Jesus, that kind of creates all this weirdness for you.
Right?
And what I would say is that there's any tension inside of you,
When you think about the word of name God and the word of name Jesus, if there's any tension that is involved there for you, you got a little bit of work to do.
Because what Jesus is saying is, I came to remove that tension.
There should be no tension between this idea, this concept of God and this idea, this concept of me.
I have come here to remove the mystery of what God is like.
I have come to show you, so you don't have to wonder anymore what God is, who God is.
And so when Philip is asking these questions to Jesus again, I don't think he's trying to be offensive.
I don't think he's in any way being disrespectful to Jesus.
He's just saying, hey, like we get Jesus that you're not a mere mortal.
Like we've seen these signs, we've seen these wonders, we've heard your teachings, we know you're not normal.
You're not mortal.
We get that.
But you being God?
Like in a body sitting here in the room with us?
Those like, just show us the Father.
Just show us God.
Like we're confused.
That will be enough.
He's like, we have the temple and we have scriptures and all that is very helpful.
But show us the Father.
Just make it clear.
And Jesus is like, you want to see the Father?
What do you think that I've been doing the past three years?
Why do you think I drag you jokers around with me everywhere that I go?
I didn't come here just to provide you guys with a bunch of new Bible stories.
The reason that I came is so that you could know what the Father was like.
And so the Gospels are not just stories about Jesus.
The Gospel documents Jesus' example and explanation of what God is like.
And that is so important because since the beginning of time, since the human species has existed, we've been trying to figure this mystery out, right?
And so you look back at all the different tribes, all the different civilizations, all the different nations, everybody from the beginning of time has been trying to figure out this mystery called God.
There's been something inside of us that knows, like that somehow something has to be holding this whole thing together.
Right inside of every human being, there's this void that says there's gotta be more to this.
Like, I wanna figure this out and we're drawn to that.
Anthropologists tell us that there have been, since the beginning of time, over 18,000 different gods, different goddesses, different animals, different objects that have been worshiped by mankind.
I don't know if that number is exactly right.
I don't know how they came to that number, but it wouldn't surprise me at all.
It makes sense.
We were created trying to figure out this mystery.
What is God like?
And until Jesus came, nobody really knew.
Nobody really knew.
God made it clear as he possibly could through Jesus to us mortal people.
He sends his son in the flesh to dwell among us.
He came to show us what God is like and who God loves.
And so when we
When we talk about these gospels, when we talk about these stories, you have to understand Jesus didn't just have an explanation of God.
Jesus is the best explanation of God.
You see the distinction between those two?
Some of you kind of read through the Bible when you're thinking, oh, Jesus is kind of giving us an explanation of what God's like, but the reality is he is the best explanation for us of what God is like.
have to base our conclusion from our personal experience.
We don't have to base our conclusion on what God is like from nature.
If you want to know what God is like, He's like Jesus.
He's just like Jesus.
Now, I want to go back to this claim that Jesus made, that I told you, trip some people up and I'll be honest, it's trip me up in times.
This single statement that Jesus made, if I'm honest, there have been times in my life that I kind of wished
In that moment, I kind of wish Jesus hadn't said this.
I kind of wished I could ignore this statement.
I kind of wish I could have found a way to position what Jesus was saying in a different way.
And maybe it's because there's someone that I loved deeply that was far from God.
And this was very troubling to me.
But this statement right here is where a lot of you guys get hung up.
And it's where Jesus said, I am the way and I am the truth and I am the life.
No one comes to the Father except through me.
Now what bothers a lot of us about a statement like that is we think could there really be just one answer to this human dilemma.
I mean like can't there be multiple ways, can't Buddhist kind of have their own way and their own path and then Muslims can kind of have their own way and their own path and then Christians can kind of have their own way and their own path.
Some of you would even say something like, I mean,
Aren't all religions basically the same?
They just use kind of different rituals and maybe different names to kind of explain what's going on in the universe.
And that's exactly where some of you are.
The problem with that is this.
It's really offensive to say all religions are the same.
Muslims don't think they're the same as Christians.
Christians don't think they're the same as Muslims.
Buddhists don't think they're the same.
That's offensive to everybody because nobody actually thinks when they're in that, they're just like the other.
They are different except
In this, every religion gives you a path to achieve your ultimate ending.
Right?
So if your ultimate goal is enlightenment, Buddhism has a path for you.
If your ultimate goal is favored with Allah, Muslims have a path for that.
If you're trying to find favor with God, Catholicism has a path for that.
Right?
And the common thread between all religions is that they were created by humans.
That's what atheists get right.
That's probably the only thing I can agree with most of the time with most atheists when I'm in a conversation with them is you're right.
Religions were created by people who are trying to figure out what do you have to do to get close to God?
What do you have to do to be accepted by God?
What do you have to do to find favor with God?
In that, right?
They are correct.
These religions were created by people.
Every religion teaches you some kind of path to get to God.
Here's what you have to do to get God's intention.
Here's what you have to do to get God's love.
Here's what you have to do to get God's grace.
You have to go through this process, take on this religion, take on this pathway, and then you can find favor with God.
So we have this construct about God as this elusive being that we have to earn our way to Him.
But I'm telling you, any God who forces you to earn his love is not worthy of your worship.
Say that again, any God who forces you to earn his love is not worthy of your worship.
That's why I believe Jesus does not fall or count as actually a religion.
See, Jesus didn't come to tell us what we need to do to get to God.
Jesus came to show us what God would do to get to us.
That's completely different than any other world religion.
This is not like religion 2.0.
It's going to be a little bit easier this time around.
No, it's totally different.
This isn't about building some construct to get to God.
It's not about climbing some kind of ladder to religious rituals or goods or deeds.
It's none of that.
This is God saying, no, no, no, no, listen.
You don't got to build this pathway to me.
I'm going to come to you to once and for all show you.
what I'm like and who I love.
And I just believe that this is so important that you understand this difference, this uniqueness of what Jesus has done for us, right?
He says, I am the way, the truth, and the life.
And I think sometimes it's confusing to me because I actually have friends who are totally cool with the God thing, but they're not cool with the Jesus thing.
And so once we start going down that pathway, they're like, yeah, I'm tapping out.
Like I can't go there.
I do believe there is mysteriously some God, but like the whole Jesus thing.
But what's so interesting to me about that is God is the name that we actually use when we talk about us searching for Him.
Jesus is the name that we use when we talk about God searching for us, coming after us.
My wife and I have a daughter, her name's Pepper.
She's two and a half years old.
That's a picture ever from earlier this week.
We were on a daddy daughter date and my wife was out some girlfriends.
And so I took her to the park and it's a little park in our neighborhood.
And like most, you know, people there were letting her kids slide down slides and stuff.
And my wife often accuses me of putting kids in positions that they really shouldn't be in at their
You know, age.
And I get, she's right.
I get that.
But I can't help myself.
And I saw a tree.
And I was like, I love climbing trees as a kid.
That was like the coolest thing ever.
So I'm like, she's two and a half.
She can kind of walk now.
So let's try it.
And so I set her up on the bottom limb of this tree.
Hard to tell from the picture, but it was up over my head.
So let's say seven foot, like I place her up there in that tree.
Not two.
I mean, like, she's not going to die if she falls out of this tree, right?
I mean,
She's gonna get scraped up, maybe break an ankle, something, but she's okay.
And I'm right there.
In my defense, I'm right there, except for in this moment, because I'm taking a picture.
So other than that, I'm right there.
So she's having a great time up there for a while.
And then I'm like, Pepper, it's probably time to get down, let Daddy get you down.
And then she just starts screaming bloody murder, right?
And there are other mostly moms here at the playground with their kids.
all staring at me like not only is he a bad dad that puts his kid up in a tree but apparently he abuses her as well because
This kid does not want him to touch her, right?
And so she starts screaming.
She doesn't want to get down.
And then she decides that she wants her mom to get her down out of the tree, which is fine, but mom is not there, right?
And then she wants her grandma that she calls cookie.
She's screaming for cookie for a solid minute.
I'm like, cookie is about 400 miles from here.
She's not here to get you.
She starts calling out to her brothers to come get her out of the tree.
And I'm trying to have a rational conversation with her that goes something like this, pepper,
You don't have another option, right?
That has to get you down out of the tree.
Nobody else is coming for you, right?
This is it.
I'm the only option that you have.
Now, what's interesting to me, when Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life.
No one comes to the Father except through me.
Why does Jesus cut out all the other options, right?
I don't think in this instance, he's saying he's superior, although he clearly is.
I think what he's communicating when he says, I'm the way, the truth, and the life, no one comes to the Father except through me.
And his love and his kindness, what he's saying to all of us is, hey, nobody else is coming.
Right?
Nobody else is coming for you.
God has sent me to this earth, his son, his representative.
Nobody else is coming.
So why in the world would you spend your entire life trying to get approval of a God who's not coming after you, but instead has created some kind of elaborate ladder of works, indeed, and religion that you have to climb, hoping that one day you could achieve his love and his grace and his mercy?
See, if God is love and everything that God does is a manifestation of love, it just makes sense to me that he'd pursue us.
that he would come after us.
And he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life.
The life.
In other words, I am a perfect fit for your soul.
I created you this way.
I'm the perfect fit for you.
He came to change our existence.
He didn't come just to change your thoughts or your beliefs.
He came to change your existence.
Because isn't it true that some of you don't really have life, what you have is an existence.
You have this void inside of you.
And you've tried, just like me, to fill that void with all kinds of things, right?
You've tried intellectual thinking.
You've tried money.
You've tried power.
You've tried popularity.
You've tried more and more of all those things, hoping that somehow it would fill this void inside of you and make you feel complete and give you purpose.
But it hasn't.
And what Jesus is saying, I have come.
I am the way.
I am the truth.
I am the life.
I am the perfect fit for you.
and you will feel most alive when you're most fully loved, and you will be most fully loved by Jesus Christ himself.
You and I were sitting down right now just having a cup of coffee and we're talking about faith and we're talking about all this and maybe you would share with me.
I just don't know.
I don't know Pete.
I don't know if I can cross that line.
I get it.
There is definitely a mystery out there and there is a God and it's not me.
But I don't know if I can believe in Jesus.
I think what I would probably say to you, I'd probably say a lot of different things, but one thing I would wanna do is just kinda lean across the table and say to you, I understand that you might not believe in Jesus, but isn't it true that your soul deeply misses him?
Isn't it true that there's still some kind of void there for you and your life?
And I honestly believe the most important question that you can ever ask yourself is who do I believe that Jesus
is, because our relationship with Jesus, it's the most important issue of our lives.
Last verse, I'll wrap up with this.
This is 1 John chapter 5, it says, and this is the testimony, God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son.
Whoever has this Son has life, whoever does not have the Son of God, does not have life.
I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God so that you may know that you have eternal life.
That's simple.
That's what Scripture teaches.
Those who have the Son have life, those who don't have the Son don't have life.
Jesus said, I'm the way, I'm the truth, I'm the life.
No one else is coming for you.
I'm here.
I'm it.
I'm the sole substitution.
I'm going to the cross to do for you what you could not do for yourself.
You could not die a sinless death.
And you can study and you can research every world religion out there.
There is no similar claim to that.
Everything else is about building a construct to get to God.
This is the only example we have of God saying, no, no, no.
You don't have to come to me.
I'm coming to you.
And I'm gonna give some of you today the opportunity to cross that line of faith.
So if you guys would just bow your head and close your eyes.
And if you're watching online, we'd love to invite you to be a part of this part of our service with us.
And for some of you, again, you've never trusted in Jesus as your personal Lord and Savior.
And I want you to do me a favor right now.
I want everybody to do this, just kind of picture like literally like a line of faith.
And you're on one side, right?
And maybe today is the day.
You haven't crossed that line yet, but maybe today is the day you're finally gonna step across that line and just be like, I don't know, for some reason I get it.
I get it.
I get that there should be no tension between God and Jesus.
I get that He came from me, and I wanna give Him my life.
And I wanna give you guys the opportunity to do that today, right?
It's a very simple prayer, just the conversation that you're gonna have in your heart with God.
I'm gonna lead you through it.
And essentially all you're saying is God, I give you my life.
I want to trust in Jesus Christ.
It's that simple.
Just step across that line of faith.
I'm gonna lead you in that prayer in just a second, but before we do that, I would love to know who I'm praying with, right?
And so if you're here and you want to cross that line of faith and you want to pray that prayer, that you want to declare
Ask what Jesus did on the cross to be applied to your sin problem.
If you want to do that today and cross that line, would you do me a favor right now and just raise your hand high?
Just want to know who I'm going to be praying with.
Go ahead, raise your hand high.
Hold it up high.
It's the biggest decision of your life.
Yeah, dozens and dozens of hands.
Praise God.
All right, you guys can put your hands down.
And just sitting where you're sitting right now, again, whether you're online or you're right here in the room with us, just open up your heart and say, Dear God,
with as much as I understand about you right now.
I want to ask what your son Jesus did on the cross to be applied to my life.
I want to receive that forgiveness.
I understand this is not about my good works.
I understand this is not about my righteousness.
It's about Christ righteousness.
And I wanna ask what he did on the cross to be applied to me.
I wanna give you my life.
I'm gonna trust in you and in you alone.
It's just that simple prayer.
And the Bible tells us, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and you believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
You and God are gonna have a lot of conversations moving forward.
But right now it's just that simple conversation of I give you my life.
God, there's a lot of us here that have already crossed that line of faith, but today we just needed a reminder of how good you are.
That you didn't leave us to our own devices to figure out this mystery on our own, but you sent your son Jesus Christ.
So there would be no doubt who you are and who you love.
There'd be no doubt about your mercy and your grace and your forgiveness.
There'd be no doubt about the fact that you've embedded inside of every one of us a purpose and a meaning.
And God, we are so grateful for that and we are grateful to you.
So we thank you for meeting us in this place today for it's in your holy and your precious name that we pray.
Amen.
I'm gonna ask you guys to do me a favor because there are dozens of you who raised your hand and say you wanted to cross that line of faith.
I'm gonna ask you to do me one more favor, all right?
And that is this.
Would you just text so easy?
Don't got to stand up.
We're not going to embarrass you in any way.
Could you just text the word Northridge?
One word.
Text the word Northridge to 31616.
We're not going to show up at your house or call you.
We're not even going to call you on the phone, right?
We just want to send you a gift that can encourage you and kind of get you started in the right way.
And can we just take a second out right now to celebrate all those people who cross that line of faith today?
We're so proud of you.
You're so proud of you.
Your life will never be the same again.
I'm not saying it's gonna be an easy walk, an easy path, right?
But your life will never be the same again.
And we're gonna take just a minute, whether you just met Jesus for the first time or you've known Him for a long time.
We're gonna take just a minute to sing a song together and be reminded of the goodness and the kindness of our God.